# Tibetan Paintings.

## By George de Roerich.

### New York, 1925.

---

---

# Introduction.

It is only recently that the systematic study of Buddhist Art has been inaugurated. Thanks to scientific excavations and explorations carried out in India by the Indian Archaeological Survey, in Central Asia by a number of archaeological missions on behalf of different governments, and in China by the pioneer work of the eminent French sinologist, the late Edouard Chavannes, we possess a number of invaluable facts wich enable us to reconstruct the vast domain of Buddhist Art. It is true that it is not yet possible to write a history of Buddhist Art in all its phases and different epochs. This huge work remains to be done, and we only can hope that future investigations in this field will facilitate the scholar's task. But if the complete history of Buddhist Art is still to be written, we can already affirm the unity of its evolution. No matter how different were the local influences, --- the types created by the joint effort of the hellenistic genius and of the Hindu spirit, kindled by the doctrine of Buddha, maintained their originality throughout the centuries, --- from the caravan stations in the deserts of Chinese Turkistan to the island of Java. Indeed, it is a matter of greal surprise that the sublime doctrine of Gautama, the Buddha, who established a legion of monks striving for a kind of ideal communism in this world, could have caused the rise of an art which powerfully attested itself throughout the vastnesses of Asia. Contemplating the serene simplicity of a Gandhāra Buddha, the delicate design of the Ajaṇṭā frescoes, the powerful and sometimes martial spirit of the Central-Asiatic pictorial compositions, and the religious fervour of the Wei art in the grottos of Yun-kang and Lung-men, --- we feel ourselves to be in the presence of a lofty altar of beauty erected by the united efforts of a host of Eastern and Western artists. No imaginary barrier stood or stands between these two great spheres of culture and civilization, and only petty racial prejudices have fostered the creation of a separating wall which haunts the imagination of a modern person. It should be remembered that the historic evolution of mankind never knew such barriers and that the message of culture proclaimed in one country is often acclaimed with equal enthusiasm in another country which may be located in a far distant part of our earthly globe. Such is the great attraction of ideas travelling along the routes that link nations together, not knowing what a barrier means. The future scholar will undoubtedly write a general history of the East, and he will also produce a history of Oriental art, which will demonstrate how great was the interchange between the various centers of culture in times gone by. When one thinks about the origins of Buddhist Art, one naturally turns towards India, the land where the Exalted One had preached his doctrine of universal salvation from the miseries of this world. But the scantity of reliable dates in the chronology of ancient India makes it very difficult to locate chronologically the outstanding creations of art produced on the soil of India. The existence of an art in India in prebuddhistic times can be left undoubted. Time and climate have destroyed whatever remained of the ancient architecture which used wood as its material, and it is only with great difficulties that we are able to sketch the history of the first plastic representations of Buddhist legends. Tentatives have already been made to discuss different tendencies in the art of the early periods, but all endeavours made by historical criticism have proved so far to be only theories, lacking in material foundations to become established facts. It seems certain that there existed a period of art strongly imbued wilh greco-persian influences. This art flourished under the Maurya dynasty (3rd century BCE). A fairly good example of this art is given by the capital of the Açoka column at Sārnāth, near Benares.

The next period is characterized by the funeral mounts or stūpas of Bhārhut and Sāñchī, which are solitary witnesses of a once flourishing artistic school. The differences in style and composition make it evident that various schools of art were active in the plains of India, and that the Buddhist artistic schools inherited much of the old local traditions, the nature of which it is impossible to ascertain at present. From the folk-lore tendencies of Bhārhut in Central India, erected about the middle of the second century BCE, with its numerous reliefs representing scenes from the Jātakas, or stories of previous existences of the Founder of the Order, we pass to the group of funeral mounds of Sāñchī (about the first century BCE), rich in representations of miracles performed by the Exalted One during his preaching in the basin of the Ganges.*

*) Sir J. Marshall, A Guide lo Sanchi, Calcutta, 1918.

The powerful influence exercised by the doctrine of Buddha on the minds of the people accounts for the efflorescence of an art dedicated to the glorification of the Master's earthly path, for, as the eminent French indianist Professor Alfred Foucher has said*: "I do not think that the imagination of any race has ever created a finer or vaster subject for a poem than this destiny of a single being in whom are shown all the aspects of life, in whom is concentrated all the experience of past ages, in one word, --- in whom the evolution of the entire race is reflected."

*) A. Foucher, The Beginnings of Buddhist Art, Paris, 1918, p. 35.

The early Buddhist artists with singular fervour reproduced in plastic forms the various episodes of the early life of the Exalted One. The pious attention with which the Bharhut artists treated the work of representing the previous lives of the Buddha, made them inscribe below the reliefs the names of the Jātakas represented on them, thus giving to the modern scholar an unique opportunity of interpreting the early Buddhist images. The reliefs of Sāñchī, although not inscribed with explanatory titles, are for the most part identified by Professor A. Grünwedel and Professor A. Foucher.* Most of the reliefs of this early Buddhist art can be satisfactorily explained with the help of the holy scriptures of Buddhism. Besides he numerous Jātaka scenes the early Buddhist refiefs represent the eight great miracles of the Buddha.* We easily recognize:

1\. The scene of the Nativity (Skrt. Jāti) in the park of Lumbinī, near Kapilavastu (the actual site has been commemorated by a pillar erected by Açoka, found near the present village of Rummindeî some 150 kls to the north of Benares).*

2\. The perfect Illumination (Skrt. Abhisambodhana) on the site of the present Bodh-gayā.

3\. The first preaching (Skrt. Dharmacakrapravartana) at Mṛgadava, near Benares.

4\. Death (Skrt. Parinirvāṇa), near the small town of Kuçinagara in the Nepal Terai.

*) A. Foucher, ibid. pp. 61-110.

*) A. Foucher, ibid. pp. 147-184.

*) E. J. Rapson, Cambridge History of India, Cambridge, 1922, p. 199.

These four sublime moments of Buddha's life, which were recommended for pilgrimage by the Exalted One himself, are supplemented by four others, which are the four principal occasions on which the Exalted One exercized his magical powers:

5\. The Great Miracle (Skrt. Mahāprātihārya) at Çrāvastī.

6\. The Descent from Heaven (Skrt. Devāvatāra) near Sāṅkāçya.

7\. The Offering of the Monkey near Vaiçālī.

8\. The Taming of the maddened Elephant at Rājagṛha.

The Tibetan tradition knows another place of sanctity, which is left unknown in Indian tradition. It is the place where the future Buddha cut down his hair and pronounced his vow in the presence of Brahma and Indra. This place is characterized by a stūpa, called in Tibetan "the most holy stūpa" (mĕhod-rten rnam-dag), which is regularly seen on paintings picturing the prince Siddhārtha taking his monastic vow.*

*) Cf. painting in the Collection Jacques Bacot in the Musée Guimet, described and edited by M. J. Hackin in his recent Guide-Catalogue du Musée Guimet, Paris, 1923, pl. 19; a typical Tibetan mĕhod-rten or stūpa is seen behind the figure of the Bodhisattva. In the Lalita-Vistara (ch. 15) we find the mention of a stūpa called "Chandakanivartana" that has been erected on the place where Chandaka left the future Buddha. The text calls this place Anuvaineya, and adds that to reach this place one had to cross the territories of the Çākyas, Kroḍyas, Mallas, and Maineyas.

It is almost impossible to say whether the early Buddhist art had produced an image of the Exalted One. A legend of the Divyāvadāna,* which can be regarded as of a late period, tells us of the miraculous origin of the image of Buddha. The king Bimbisāra, of Magadha, having received rich presents from Rudrāyana, king of Roruka, decided to send to the latter an image of the Exalted One. The artists, to whom the commission was given, found themselves unable to outline the divine face and figure of the Buddha. Seeing their difficulty, the Exalted One ordered a linen-cloth to be brought and on its surface projected his shadow, which was then designed and coloured by the artists. We are involuntarily reminded of an almost analogical story concerning the miraculous origin of the image of Christ.

*) Burnouf, Intr. a l'hist. du Bouddhisme indien, p. 34.

The artistic schools that decorated the funeral mounds of Bhārhut and Sāñchī seem to avoid the human representation of the Exalted One. On the reliefs of Bhārhut and Sāñchī, the Buddha is always represented by symbols, never in human form. Thus the Great Departure (Skrt. Mahābhiniṣkramaṇa) is always represented by a horse without a rider coming out of a city gate; the Great Preaching is symbolized by the Wheel of Law, and the Parinirvāṇa by a funeral mound or stǔpa.

As Professor Alfred Foucher has shown,* the two schools --- the one represented at Sāñchī, and the other called Gandhāra school --- were almost contemporary. One, as we have just seen, used symbols to represent the person of the Teacher, as if denying the possibilily of a representation in human form; the other succeeded in creating a human type of the Founder of the Order. It will be inleresting to know whether there existed a correspondence between artistic schools and different sects of Buddhism. If such a correspondence could be discovered, the school represented at Sāñchī should be regarded as the more orthodox of the two, corresponding to some Buddhist sects of Central India which zealously clung to the formula: "The Buddha disappears, the Law remains,"* --- words which were spoken by the Exalted One himself at the time of his entering into Nirvāṇa. 

*) A. Foucher, L'Art Greco-Bouddhique du Gandhāra, Vol. 2nd, fasc. 2, p. 744. Paris, 1923.

*) Mahāparinibhāna-sutta, 6, 1.

The creation of a human type of Buddha has been, as we have just said, achieved by the greco-buddhist school that flourished in the ancient Gandhāra province in North-Western India towards the beginning of our era. This school had already established its character about the first century BCE, and gained in eminence during the following centuries. About the third century CE its glory faded away and the subsequent centuries saw it in complete decadence.

This school was a typical product of its time, an outcome of the spread of artistic syncretism in the hellenistic Orient of the last centuries before our era.

Since the memorable campaigns of Alexander the Great this craze for artistic and religious syncretism became general in the Near East, and has probably influenced North-Western India and Bactria, where hellenistic dynasts established themselves after the dissolution of the great Macedonian Empire. The classical country of hellenism was Egypt, where Greek emigrants persistently tried to establish a contact with the ancient lore of Egypt, and the Egyptians gradually admitted Greek conceptions into their religious system. The same general tendency was strongly pronounced in art, and the sometimes clumsy type of hellenistic artistic productions can be explained by the fact that the hellenistic artist could not easily assimilate the great variety of different styles placed at his disposal. The hellenistic tendencies of local dynasties in North-Western India and adjacent countries (Greek plays at Parthian courts), and the spread of Buddhist propaganda across the borders of India, resulted in the establishment of a local school of art. All the productions of this school bear evidence of its double origin: the form is undoubtedly hellenistic, whereas the meaning can only be established with the help of Buddhist sacred texts.

At present we are in the possession of a monumental work by Professor Foucher on the art of Gandhāra, where its character, its artistic value, and its spread through the Buddhist world are masterfully described. We have dwelt on this school a little longer because of its important role in the history of Oriental art. Its creations were carried by sea and by land to the countries of the Far East, and established there the foundations of a brilliant efflorescence of artistic schools inspired by the doctrine and legend of Buddha.

The archaeological explorations which were carried out by a number of distinguished scholars along the two great caravan routes in Chinese Turkistan, have unearthed a huge amount of local artistic productions enabling thus to reconstruct the way by which the Gandhāra art had travelled before it reached the confines of China and powerfully influenced the religious art of the Wei period. The great drawback in the study of the Gandhāra art, and of the art of the early Buddhist period in general, is the complete absence of frescoes or other paintings. Time and climate have destroyed whatever remained of the old pictorial art. The walls of vihāras or monasteries and of rock-carved temples were undoubtedly decorated with frescoes, whose character it is impossible to ascertain. The Central-Asiatic pictorial art gives only a very imperfect idea of the character of the pictorial art of the ancient Gandhāra. Of the pictorial art belonging to the period preceding our era only one specimen exists: it is a fragmentary fresco in the Jogīmārā cave of the Rāmgarh Hill in the distant Surgujā State. According to Sir John Marshall the fresco was executed in the first century before our era. The original design of the fresco is spoiled by later restauration.* Let us hope that the recent archaeological explorations of Professor Foucher in Afghanistan, besides furnishing new proofs, will help us to fill this gap in our knowledge of Gandhāra art, and will give fresh material for a new chapter in the history of Indian pictorial art. The Gandhāra traditions left a lasting trace on the artistic schools of India, and the brilliant Gupta art owes much of its brilliancy to the achievements of Greco-Buddhist artists.

*) E. Rapson, The Cambridge History of India, ch. 26, pp. 642-43.

Tibetan art closely follows the ancient Indian traditions. Many iconographical types of the Buddhist pantheon in Tibet can be traced back to Gandhāra originals. Before discussing Tibetan pictorial art, a brief historical sketch of Tibet will be found useful.

Little is known about the history of the table-lands of Tibet* before the introduction of Buddhism in the first half of the seventh century CE. It seems that the country was ruled by a number of petty chieftains, who were in a state of continuous warfare against each other. According to Chinese Annals the first Tibetan kingdom was established about 607 CE by the king rNam-ri Sroṅ-btsan. His son was the famous ruler of Tibet, Sroṅ-btsan sgam-po, who introduced Buddhism into the land and whom the tradition honours with the title of Čhos-rgyal, or Dharmarāja. This king established his capital in Lha-Idan or Lha-sa in Central Tibet (dbUs), and laid the foundations of a state organization. His victorious conquests carried him to the confines of China and his armies even sacked the western Ssǔ-ch'uan province. About 640 CE he concluded a peace treaty with the T'ang Emperor T'ai-tsung, by which his supremacy in the region of Kuku-nor was recognized by China. And such was the military strength of the Tibetan king that he even obtained in marriage a Chinese Imperial princess (kung-chu). Sroṇ-btsan sgam-po concluded another matrimonial alliance with Nepal by marrying the daughter of the Nepalese king Amçuvarman. These two royal princesses were fervent Buddhists, and tradition says that the Chinese princess brought to Tibet a famous statue of Buddha, while the Nepalese princess brought an image of the Dhyāni-Buddha Akṣobhya. Both statues are now preserved in the Jo-khang in Lhasa. It is even said that the king married the two princesses in order to obtain the two famous statues.

...
